---
layout: post
title: Getting started
subtitle: Motivation and Planning for growing tobacco and rolling cigars
---

So, I have decided to grow my own tobacco and role my own cigars. I am
going to document all the process from the planing stage until I will
have my own cigars aged in my humidor, and, maybe, I will continue
documenting different tobacco blending experiences after this.

This is the first article in which I will detail why I am growing my own
tobacco and rolling my own cigars, how do I plan for it and what
documentation and resources I am using for making my wish come true.

Why growing and rolling my own tobacco
======================================

During this holidays season, I have smoked a few cigars. I am not a smoker, but
I did enjoy the experience a lot. In the past I have tried cigars, but this
time I tried several types of cigars, with different shapes, made in Cuba,
Dominican Republic or Mexico, long filler and short filler types.

These, combined with the relaxing days of Christmas and New Year's Eve, made me
to better taste the pleasures of smoking a cigar. So, I realized that there is
more in smoking a cigar then the smoke: there is the shape of the cigar, there
are aromas that persists and transform both inside your mouth and around you,
there is the drink you have with your cigar, and all this kind of things that
makes the pleasure of smoking a cigar unique.

I begin thinking a lot of cigars, of tobacco mixtures, of long vs short fillers,
I started to be curious about how the cigars are made, what really makes the
difference when you smoke a certain kind of cigar. I watched this video where
a woman demonstrates how cigars are rolled and molded. The image persisted into
my mind and grew into the desire of rolling my own tobacco.

Rolling is pretty easy once you have the proper tobacco leaves, cured and
fermented. So, why I should grow my own tobacco?

First I didn't want to grow tobacco. Just want it to find some tobacco leaves
and start rolling my own. Searching for tobacco leaves, I have found a few
web sites that would provide bundles of tobacco packs ready to be rolled. But,
searching for leaves, I discovered some web sites specialized in selling tobacco
seeds, as well as instructions about how to grew your own tobacco and cure the
leaves so you get nice cigar tobacco.

Reading these sites, I found out that it is not that difficult to grow your
own tobacco. And, again, the thought persisted in my mind, and it transformed
into the desire of doing it all.

This has to do with the pleasure of smoking cigars. When you smoke a cigar you
start notice different kinds of aromas. And, while it is very nice to have these
aromas prepared for you, it is also nice to make your own blends of tobacco and
obtain your own unique cigar. So, these thoughts, and the fact that it does not
seem too complicated, made me decide to do the whole process, from planting the
tobacco seeds to having an aged cigar.

I want to share the whole process with you, since you may learn from my
experience as I learned from others on the net, and you would be able to
produce your own cigars with their unique characteristics.

The plan
========

So, what is my plan? How will I make my first cigars? What kind of tobacco will
I use? What choices I have in my mind?

First thing is that I want to use fermented tobacco. I have seen in this great
blog post that it is possible to use tobacco leaves that are not fermented and
you can get great results. But I want to try to do the real thing.

Second, I want to use molds to shape my cigars. This is not a must either, but
I think it gives better looking cigars and is part of the experience of doing
my own cigars. And, for me, this is all for the experience.

I start looking for cigar molds to buy. But I found out that they all are pretty
expensive for what they really are, that is just a simple mold (at least $50).
And, also, it is hard to make your own personalized shapes. So I am thinking
to make my own molds, but I don't really know how I will do them yet.

The shape of the cigars I will make is also an important choice for me. I love
presidente shape. Also I like robusto, corona ... I think each shape has it's
own magic. I see myself producing 2 cigar shapes: a short robusto and something
thiner, something like cigarillos or panetela. I think I am going to make these
sizes, approximately:

-   100x20 mm (4'' x 50)
-   120x11 mm (5'' x 28)

Some other things I still have to think for the plan, and I will write about in the
next articles:

*   The kinds of tobacco I will use.

*   How will I grow tobacco?

*   How will I cure tobacco?

*   How will I ferment tobacco?

*   How will I age my tobacco?

    I am thinking not to age tobacco leaves. After fermentation process will be over
    I will just start rolling my cigars. Then, I am going to age the cigars
    themselves, storing them in the humidor. Of course, I am going to taste some
    right away, and keep notes of types of tobacco leaves I used and how did they
    taste.

*   Thoughts on harvesting tobacco.

*   Thoughts on rolling cigars.

*   Thoughts about keeping track of cigars recipes.
